---
layout: post
title: Take Two
date: 2017-12-03
category: teaching
---

I really should have written this a couple of weeks ago, but life got in the way a bit.

So two weeks ago we had our second physical chemistry tutorial of the year -- and my second chance to use Jupyter notebooks and Python to augment the tutorial.
The notebook from this week can be found [here](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/bjmorgan/python_in_chemistry/master?filepath=First_Year_Tutorials%2FWeek_4.ipynb).

In this week's tutorial nearly all of the questions were mathematical in nature, which is a huge bonus for the utility of the notebooks.
However, due to the lack of a plotting based question -- or in many ways a question with a significant problem solving aspect (no disrespect to the author of the questions).
The level of engagement with the notebooks was not the same as the previous week.

Regardless, I feel there were two significant positives from this week:

- I noted that the students were very easily able to follow along with the syntax used in the Python code. This is of course a much trodden benefit of Python; the readability to non-experts. this definitely showed in the tutorial.
- All of the students appeared to appreciate the ability of the notebook to quickly produce the answer (even just for there own peace of mind). Rather than the previous method I have used where I take a calculator along to the tutorial, or better yet borrow a students.

Other news on the Python front at bath is the push to introduce more chemistry students to Python is becoming more formalised, with the launch of the [pythoninchemistry](http://blogs.bath.ac.uk/python/) blog. Where two academics and myself have been working on developing a series of notebooks and blog posts giving both an introduction to Python but also some examples for how it can be used in the chemical sciences.

I have my third tutorial this week so will try and update more quickly this time.
Finger crossed for electrochemistry.  
